docs(forms): add migration guide for Signal Forms (#66111)
angular/angular: adev/src/content/guide/forms/signals/migration.md

# Migrating existing forms to Signal Forms

This guide provides strategies for migrating existing codebases to Signal Forms, focusing on interoperability with
legacy Reactive Forms.

## Top-down migration using `compatForm`

Sometimes you may want to use existing reactive `FormControl` instances within a Signal Form. This is useful for
controls that involve:

* Complex asynchronous logic.
* Intricate RxJS operators that are not yet ported.

> * Integration with legacy third-party libraries.

Reviewer: we might want to introduce `compatForm` a bit.

### Integrating a `FormControl` into a signal form

Consider an existing `passwordControl` that uses a specialized `enterprisePasswordValidator`. Instead of rewriting the
validator, you can bridge the control into your signal state.

First, define your legacy control:

```typescript
import {signal, Injector, inject} from '@angular/core';
import {FormControl, Validators} from '@angular/forms';

> import {compatForm} from '@angular/forms/signals';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import {compatForm} from '@angular/forms/signals/compat';
```

We can do it using `compatForm`

```typescript
import {signal} from '@angular/core';
import {FormControl, Validators} from '@angular/forms';
import {compatForm} from '@angular/forms/signals/compat';

// 1. Existing legacy control with a specialized validator
const passwordControl = new FormControl('', {
  validators: [Validators.required, enterprisePasswordValidator()],
  nonNullable: true,
});

// 2. Wrap it inside your form state signal
const user = signal({
  email: '',
  password: passwordControl, // Nest the legacy control directly
});

// 3. Create the form
const f = compatForm(user);

// Access values via the signal tree
console.log(f.email().value()); // Current email value
console.log(f.password().value()); // Current value of passwordControl

// Reactive state is proxied automatically
const isInvalid = f.password().valid();
const passwordErrors = f.password().errors(); // Returns CompatValidationError if the legacy validator fails
```

In the template, use standard reactive syntax by binding the underlying control:

```angular-html
<form>
  <div>
    <label>
      Email:
      <input [field]="f.email">
    </label>

>     @if (f.email().touched() && f.email().invalid()) {

Reviewer 2: Since the example above doesn't actually have a validation rule applied to the `email` field, can we just remove this to simplify the code snippet?

    <div class="error-list">
      <p>Email is required.</p>
    </div>
    }
  </div>

  <div>
    <label>
      Password:
      <input [field]="f.password" type="password">
    </label>

    @if (f.password().touched() && f.password().invalid()) {
    <div class="error-list">
      @for (error of f.password().errors(); track error) {
      <p>{{ error.message || error.kind }}</p>
      }

>     </div>

Reviewer 2: Same here:
```suggestion
      <div class="error-list">
        @for (error of f.password().errors(); track error) {
          <p>{{ error.message || error.kind }}</p>
        }
      </div>
```

    }
  </div>
</form>
```

<docs-code-multifile preview path="adev/src/content/examples/signal-forms/src/compat-form-control-integration/app/app.ts">
  <docs-code header="app.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/signal-forms/src/compat-form-control-integration/app/app.ts"/>
  <docs-code header="app.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/signal-forms/src/compat-form-control-integration/app/app.html"/>
</docs-code-multifile>

### Integrating a `FormGroup` into a signal form

You can also wrap an entire `FormGroup`. This is common when a reusable sub-section of a form—such as an **Address Block

> **—is still managed by legacy Reactive Forms.

Reviewer 2: Formatting on the preview site is broken here. I suspect due to the space before the final `**`:
```suggestion
You can also wrap an entire `FormGroup`. This is common when a reusable sub-section of a form—such
as an **Address Block**—is still managed by legacy Reactive Forms.
```

```typescript
import {signal} from '@angular/core';
import {FormGroup, FormControl, Validators} from '@angular/forms';
import {compatForm} from '@angular/forms/signals/compat';

// 1. A legacy address group with its own validation logic
const addressGroup = new FormGroup({
  street: new FormControl('123 Angular Way', Validators.required),
  city: new FormControl('Mountain View', Validators.required),
  zip: new FormControl('94043', Validators.required),
});

// 2. Include it in the state like it's a value
const checkoutModel = signal({
  customerName: 'Pirojok the Cat',
  shippingAddress: addressGroup,
});

const f = compatForm(checkoutModel);
```

The `shippingAddress` field acts as a branch in your Signal Form tree. You can bind these nested controls in your
template by accessing the underlying legacy controls via `.control()`:

```angular-html
<form>
  <h3>Shipping Details</h3>

  <div>
    <label>
      Customer Name:
      <input [field]="f.customerName">
    </label>

    @if (f.customerName().touched() && f.customerName().invalid()) {
      <div class="error-list">
        <p>Customer name is required.</p>
      </div>

>     }

Reviewer 2: Same suggestion to remove this here, since it's irrelevant to the example and there's no validation applied to the field anyways.

  <docs-code header="app.ts" path="adev/src/content/examples/signal-forms/src/compat-form-group-integration/app/app.ts"/>
  <docs-code header="app.html" path="adev/src/content/examples/signal-forms/src/compat-form-group-integration/app/app.html"/>
</docs-code-multifile>

### Accessing values

While `compatForm` proxies value access on the `FormControl` level, the full form value preserves the control:

```typescript
const passwordControl = new FormControl('password' /** ... */);

const user = signal({
  email: '',
  password: passwordControl, // Nest the legacy control directly
});

const form = compatForm(user);
form.password().value(); // 'password'
form().value(); // { email: '', password: FormControl}
```

If you need the whole form value, you'd have to build it manually:

```typescript
const formValue = computed(() => ({
  email: form.email().value(),
  password: form.password().value(),
})); // {email: '', password: ''}
```

## Bottom-up migration

This is coming soon.

## Automatic status classes

Reactive forms used to bind classes like `.ng-valid` or `.ng-dirty` to every field. Signal forms do not do that anymore.

> If you want this behavior you can provide an NG_STATUS_CLASSES preset that can be provided to match the Reactive Forms

Reviewer 2: nit: phrasing (lots of duplication between "want this behavior"/"match the [behavior]" and "you can provide"/"can be provided".

```suggestion
If you want to preserve this behavior, you can provide the `NG_STATUS_CLASSES` preset:
```

behavior:

```typescript

> import {provideSignalFormsConfig} from '@angular/forms/signals';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import {NG_STATUS_CLASSES, provideSignalFormsConfig} from '@angular/forms/signals';
```
